	In general, troubleshooting is the identification or diagnosis of trouble in the management flow
of a corporation or a system caused by a failure of some kind. It is used to fix problems with hardware,
software (sometimes both hardware and software) and many other issues. Troubleshooting process involves
gathering information like symptoms that caused an undesired behavior or lacked of expected functionality.
Continuing, the troubleshooter resort to the more systematic and logical process of verifying the expected
function of parts of a system. Troubleshooting demands critical thinking rather than magical thinking.
	So what I learned and what I noticed about troubleshooting computers for the whole semester is that
it starts with the most general and often most obvious possible problems, and then narrow it down to more
specific issues. This illustrated by the old saying “When you see hoof prints, look for horses, not zebras “.
I also learned that troubleshooting is something we must have to do at some point but the good news is that,
the more we do it, the more we learn and the better we get at fixing problems. Another thing that I learned
is that troubleshooting on your own helps us to save money. For example, many of us are so reliant on our
computers that when something goes wrong it is a serious problem already and call professionals to fixed it
and pay- like the power going out and we thought it is dead but the cause is we do not plug it to a correct
voltage supply. A simple problem but we take it as a serious one and cause our pockets to be empty before 
but after taking this subject, things change.
	Based on my experiences and learnings for the past six months and after taking this subject, I can tell
you the common and basic trouble shooting techniques for almost all parts a of a pc and it’s peripheral 
devices. If there is no power, try to check the cables and connections if they are properly plugged in. If
your computer acts abnormally, try to restart it by using the restart option of the computer or by force like
holding down the power button on the pc until it forcibly turns off. Always run a thorough virus scan and update
your anti-virus regularly. When it comes to the malfunctioning of peripheral devices, one thing you can do is
update your driver. Try to replace your suspected malfunctioning device or part with a same and exact one and
connect it to check if some issues are the main cause of your diagnosed problem. By using this simple techniques,
we can save time, money and effort.
	“An ounce of prevention is a worth a pound of cure”. We can also apply this proverb to our computer 
field. Computer maintenance is a practice of keeping computers in a good state. There are thorough maintenance
checks needed on a computer to avoid unnecessary downtime and failure or loss of computer data.
	To avoid problems and trouble shooting, we must have a procedure called maintenance plan. Maintenance plan
includes checking computer log files, assessing hard disk space, examining computer folder permissions, 
monitoring computer temperature, ensuring adequate redundancy of computer systems. Examining security features,
installing security software patches, reading computer logs for security alerts or evidence of security hacking
attempts, updating anti-virus software on all computers on the network, updating critical service packs and 
software updates, performing regular comprehensive back-ups to ensure that vital data can be retrieved from 
storage in the event of system failure and always clean your computer and peripheral devices and use correct
and proper cleaning materials. 
	I gained a lot of learnings in this subject because of our effective instructor. He did not simply teach 
knowledge to his student but rather aims to arm his students with knowledge, skills, understanding and attitudes
that will prepare his students for life-long learning. He is like a musician, he transfers knowledge to the minds
of students just as a musician transmits tunes to the ears of audiences. He inspires each one of us. He provided 
instructions to students of varying abilities while incorporating instructional objectives to the students. One 
of his way of teaching I adore the most is maintaining a stress free environment to his students. He did not 
pressure the students but instead encouraging them to be a productive one. He knew what the students really feel
and he was not self- centered. He gave projects and gave enough deadline. He gave assignments to be searched and
he helped us to understood what we searched by allowing us report in front of our classmates. He gave quizzes and
major exams not a fill in the blank questions or definition of terms or book based questions but rather in an 
essay form and ask about what we learned at that certain topic.
